Article commit naming rules (#300)
DXHeroes/knowledge-base-content: practices/commit_naming_rules.md

---
slug: commit-naming-rules
stages:
  - development
short_description: Having a commit naming convention can be of great help, in maintaining the codebase and easing up the development process. Find out more about the good practices around commit naming rules!
tags:
  - commit messages
  - commit names
  - commits
  - git
  - github
  - development process
keywords:
  - commits
  - commit messages
  - commit names
  - git
  - github
  - development process
  - commit rules
  - commit best practices
covered_by_dx_scanner: true
---

# Commit Naming Rules

**TL;DR**

Having a commit naming convention can be of great help, in maintaining the codebase and easing up the development process. Find out more about the good practices around commit naming rules!

> ![Commit naming guide](/files/commit_guide.png)

Reviewer: Please, add a source for the image. Use` [name](website)`

> ![Commit naming guide](/files/commit_guide.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Commit naming guide](/files/commit_guide.png)
[Author unknown](https://dxkb.io)
```

> 

Reviewer: Please, add which problems Commit Naming Rules (as practice) solves. If you could, include some of the already covered issues on [DX Knowledgebase](https://developerexperience.io/problems)

> ## Why Commit Naming Rules?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Why You Might Want Commit Naming Rules?
```

Commit messages have become a crucial part of the development process. They allow you to trace back the point in time when you wrote that particular piece of code, or more often they let other developers in your team, track the flow of code, and no one likes tracking code with messy commit messages. Since it is a summary of what changes you did, it is very important to write commit messages that are concise and consistent.

There are many conventions around commit messages, that are widely followed in the developer community.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Problems that Increasing the Bus Factor Solves
- [Poor code quality](/problems/poor-code-quality)
- [Demotivated Team](/problems/demotivated-team)
- [Toxic team culture](/problems/toxic-team-culture)
```

> ## How to Write Effective Commit Messages?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How to Implement Commit Naming Rules?
```

> ![Commit Message](/files/commit_dear_git.png)

Reviewer: Please, add a source for the image

### Add a Type

> Commit messages should indicate the type of commit. For that following type conventions are used:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Commit messages should indicate the type of commit. For that following type you should use these conventions:
```
The active voice seems better to me in this sentence.

- **fix**: Indicates that your commit fixes some bug or something.
- **feat**: Indicates that your commit adds a new feature.

Besides these many organizations like Angular, use their  conventions and commit types like *'build:', 'docs:', 'refactor:',* etc.

### Write Commit Message In the Imperative Mood

> Commit messages, especially the subject lines should be written in the imperative mood, i.e., as if you were to command your code to perform some instruction. Like telling what git should do while applying that commit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Commit messages, especially you should write the subject lines in the imperative mood, i.e., as if you were to command your code to perform some instruction. Like telling what Git should do while applying that commit.
```

eg. instead of using *"fixed: bug #45",* use *"fix: bug #45" .*

### Explain the What's and Why's Instead of How

> The commit message body is the perfect place to explain what your commit does. Instead of explaining how you changed something, just explaining what is changed, and why, does the job. Commit body is the perfect place to explain these things. Generally, your code should be self-explanatory. Still, if you feel the need to explain how something works, source comments are the perfect place for it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The commit message body is the perfect place to explain what your commit does. Don't explain _how_ you did the changes. Instead, show _what_ and _why_ you changed. Commit body is the perfect place to explain these things. Generally, your code should be self-explanatory. Still, if you feel the need to explain how something works, use source comments.
```
I like your way of saying this. I suggest this change just to make your sentence easier to translate (so people with slightly worse English than you could still enjoy your writing).

> Besides all these commit naming conventions, there are things which are highly subjective and may vary between developers to developers, like *"should subject line be capitalized?"* or *"to add or not to add punctuation marks in commit messages?".* Opinions **like these may vary from person to person but it's always a good practice to use any convention and be consistent with it. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Besides all these commit naming conventions, there are things that are highly subjective and may vary between developers to developers, like *"should the subject line be capitalized?"* or *"to add or not to add punctuation marks in commit messages?".* Opinions like these may vary from person to person but it's a good practice to be consistent with your conventions.
```

> 

Reviewer: Please, add common Pitfalls of Commit messages

> 

Reviewer: What do you think about having the commit conventions as a written document in each repo? I thought about this idea for some time.  Basically, I see it as a contributing guide but for commit names and messages. What are your thoughts on this?

tags:
  - commit messages
  - commit names
  - commits
  - git
  - github
  - development process
keywords:
  - commits
  - commit messages
  - commit names
  - git
  - github
  - development process
  - commit rules
  - commit best practices
covered_by_dx_scanner: true
---

# Commit Naming Rules

**TL;DR**

Having a commit naming convention can be of great help, in maintaining the codebase and easing up the development process. Find out more about the good practices around commit naming rules!

![Commit naming guide](/files/commit_guide.png)
[Author unknown](https://dxkb.io)

## Why You Might Want Commit Naming Rules?

Commit messages have become a crucial part of the development process. They allow you to trace back the point in time when you wrote that particular piece of code, or more often they let other developers in your team, track the flow of code, and no one likes tracking code with messy commit messages. Since it is a summary of what changes you did, it is very important to write commit messages that are concise and consistent.

There are many conventions around commit messages, that are widely followed in the developer community.

> ## Problems that Increasing the Bus Factor Solves

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Problems that Commit Naming Rules Helps to Solve
```

### Write Commit Message In the Imperative Mood

Commit messages, especially you should write the subject lines in the imperative mood, i.e., as if you were to command your code to perform some instruction. Like telling what Git should do while applying that commit.

eg. instead of using *"fixed: bug #45",* use *"fix: bug #45" .*

### Explain the What's and Why's Instead of How

The commit message body is the perfect place to explain what your commit does. Don't explain _how_ you did the changes. Instead, show _what_ and _why_ you changed. Commit body is the perfect place to explain these things. Generally, your code should be self-explanatory. Still, if you feel the need to explain how something works, use source comments.

Besides all these commit naming conventions, there are things that are highly subjective and may vary between developers to developers, like *"should the subject line be capitalized?"* or *"to add or not to add punctuation marks in commit messages?".* Opinions like these may vary from person to person but it's a good practice to be consistent with your conventions.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Common Pitfalls of Commit Naming Rules
* Developers don't follow the Commit Naming Rules
* The Commit Naming Rules are frequently changed
* Developers don't use Semantic Versioning together with Commit Naming Rules
* Developers hide unreadable code behind explanatory names 
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Commit Convetions

If your repo has unusual commit tags, create a commit conventions document for your team. Commit Conventions are especially helpful when you maintain an open-source repo since they provide guidelines for every contributor. However, if you are using the standard *fix*, *feat*, *bug*, *refactoring*, and so on, you don't need to have them written down.
```

![Commit Message](/files/commit_dear_git.png)

### Add a Type

Commit messages should indicate the type of commit. For that following type you should use these conventions:

- **fix**: Indicates that your commit fixes some bug or something.
- **feat**: Indicates that your commit adds a new feature.

Besides these many organizations like Angular, use their  conventions and commit types like *'build:', 'docs:', 'refactor:',* etc.

### Write Commit Message In the Imperative Mood

Commit messages, especially you should write the subject lines in the imperative mood, i.e., as if you were to command your code to perform some instruction. Like telling what Git should do while applying that commit.

eg. instead of using *"fixed: bug #45",* use *"fix: bug #45" .*

### Explain the What's and Why's Instead of How

The commit message body is the perfect place to explain what your commit does. Don't explain _how_ you did the changes. Instead, show _what_ and _why_ you changed. Commit body is the perfect place to explain these things. Generally, your code should be self-explanatory. Still, if you feel the need to explain how something works, use source comments.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### Commit Convetions

If your repo has unusual commit tags, create a commit conventions document for your team. Commit Conventions are especially helpful when you maintain an open-source repo since they provide guidelines for every contributor. However, if you are using the standard _fix_, _feat_, _bug_, _refactoring_, and so on, you don't need to have them written down.
```
